# ALESCo Meeting Minutes (2024-08-21)
Minutes recorded by Jonathan Wright.

Edited by Jonathan Wright for publishing.

## Members
### ALESCo Member Attendees
- Jonathan Wright
- Cody Robertson
- Andrew Lukoshko
- Elkhan Mammadli
- Ben Thomas
- Neal Gompa
  
### Board Attendees
- benny Vasquez
- Alex Iribarren

## Community Attendees

## Decisions Adopted
1. SPICE support to be added back to AlmaLinux 10
   - Removed in RHEL 9
   - Will revisit for enablement in AlmaLinux 9 at a later time
   - Unanimous decision

## Minutes
- SPICE Support in AlmaLinux
  - Neal: Dropped in RHEL due to no RHEL stacks dependent on it.
    - Cody: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2030592
  - We can package server-side components in AlmaLinux
  - We can package client-side components in EPEL
  - benny: Concerned about further deviation from RHEL
    - Retracted after clarification of no modifcations to kernel, and only addition of packages
  - Neal: Virt stack in RHEL remains relatively close to upstream, so good for maintainability of these additions
  - Neal: Upstream libvirt maintainers are good to work with, can probably propose running their CI against AlmaLinux Kitten 10
  - Voted to enable/build necessary packages for AlmaLinux 10 unanimously
  - Tabled discussion of adding back to AlmaLinux 9 at a later time
- benny: ALESCo Live Community Q&A
  - No ALESCo members against this
  - Will be moderated by benny
  - Potentially quarterly
  - benny will coordinate a time that works for ALESCo members, maybe Sept. 4 or Sept. 11
  - Great for transparency and community engagement
- Disabled HW in RHEL10
  - Andrew: What should we re-enable
    - All: Mellanox definitely
    - Andrew: 10s of devices disabled in EL10 kernel
    - Jonathan: QLogic & other less-used devices?
  - Neal: Linux Plumbers will be useful to make connections to RHEL kernel maintainers
    - They are generally willing to merge things for RHEL-disabled components as long as they don't impact enabled-components.
    - We probably need a separate process for users to request hardware enablement of devices
  - Ben: Already has requests within UCL for re-adding support for QLogic cards
  - Alex (Board): Must be careful when enabling things that might appear easy to flip a flag now but will potentially later become more difficult to maintain.
  - Jonathan: We can agree on an initial list of things to re-enable that are very common and/or we have direct experience with and vote on the rest as demand arises throughout the AlmaLinux 10 life cycle.
- Elkhan: Separate kernel for PPC with KVM enabled
  - Neal: Basically what centos hyperscale does with their kernel - RHEL-ish config (based on Fedora) + enablement on some thingfs
  - Neal: What if we just re-enable it in the main Alma kernel since it is a flag?
    - Jonathan: We can mark that feature specifically as experimental, even in the main Alma kernel
    - Andrew: Just changing the flag isn't enough, a few patches are required to get it to build
  - Elkhan: Use-case is openQA and image building
    - All: not aware of any use-cases or requests from users
  - Ben: Separate workflow for kernel-specific requests?
    - Neal: fits within the other already-discussed to-be-defined change request processes
- Andrew: Secure-Boot Signing ELRepo or other 3rd party kernels
  - Building works, signing works, never got further feedback on if we want to do this or not
  - Are we going to collaborate with 3rd party if we were to do this?
  - Neal: Anything we sign should be AlmaLinux-hosted
    - All: agreed on this point
  - Neal: Have discussed with Jonathan about also maintaing the Hyperscale kernel for AlmaLinux
  - Jonathan: Situation is too fluid right now to make a decision on this at the moment.
  - Jonathan: Better if we have a SIG that wants to maintain something within AlmaLinux versus pulling from a 3rd party
  - Neal: Signing SIG kernels in general
    - We have to be able to trust the full tree and trace back all changes to the origin
  - Jonathan: Motion to revisit this at a later time
    - All: agreed
- Jonathan: Revisit ALESCo meeting times
  - Have heard from interested community members they cannot attend the current time of 10AM EST
  - Was difficult to select current time, tough to fit into ALESCo members schedules given varying countries/schedules
  - Neal: Potential compromise is scheduling the community Q/A sessions at varying times to be more accessible
  - Cody: Can re-run a discussion among ALESCo members to try to find a new time
