# ALESCo Meeting Minutes (2024-10-02)
Minutes recorded by Cody Robertson.

Edited by Cody Robertson for publishing.

## Members
### ALESCo Member Attendees
- Andrew Lukoshko
- Cody Robertson
- Elkhan Mammadli
- Jonathan Wright
- Neal Gompa

### Unable to attend
- Ben Thomas

### Board Attendees
- Alex Iribarren
- benny Vasquez

## Community Attendees
- No community attendees

## Decisions Adopted
  - Rebuilding EPEL for x86_64_v2
    - The motion to rebuild EPEL for x86_64 v2 was tabled to gather more data and revisit after the release of AlmaLinux Kitten.

## Minutes

### Rebuilding EPEL for x86_64 v2
- Cody: Introduced the topic of rebuilding EPEL for the x86_64 v2 architecture. Noted that previous votes focused on v3 and there was ambiguity regarding v2.
- Andrew: Expressed concerns about the potential workload and maintenance challenges.
  - Highlighted the need to adjust macro systems and spec files.
	- Did not want to maintain changes or forks on our side.
  - Jonathan: Clarified that the build system can reasonably supports this
    - Andrew: Yes, not a problem
	- Neal: Pointed out that Fedora still builds for v1 and EPEL packages are Fedora backports, so issues might be minimal.
	- Neal:	Emphasized the importance of EPEL for the usability of RHEL-based distributions.
	- Neal:	Suggested that releasing without EPEL support might hinder adoption.
	- Alex: Agreed with Andrew’s concerns.
  - Neal: Can do this in stages, thinks we should approve it and see demand to make further decisions
	- Jonathan: Proposed tabling the decision to gather more data on user demand and revisit the topic after the release of AlmaLinux Kitten.
	- Neal: Warned that releasing AlmaLinux 10 without EPEL support for x86_64 v2 could impede adoption/usage
	  - Suggested that if they decide not to build EPEL for v2, they should consider not releasing the v2 variant at all.
	-	Decision: The team agreed to table the motion and reassess after AlmaLinux Kitten is released.

### GitHub Repository for Official Changes/RFCs

-	Cody: Presented a PoC for a GitHub repository to manage Requests for Comments (RFCs) and official changes [[1]](https://github.com/codyro/alesco-poc/)
  - Inspired by ArchLinux and Rust RFC processes.
	-	Neal: Suggested replacing the “Alternatives” section with a “Feedback” section to capture community input.
	- Neal:	Emphasized that submitting an RFC does not obligate the ALESCo committee to implement it; contributors should be responsible for the work.
	-	Neal: Proposed adding sections about the benefit to AlmaLinux and feedback from the community/marketing perspective
	-	Jonathan: Agreed with the proposed changes
	-	Jonathan: Discussed the possibility of mentoring contributors who might need assistance.
	-	Jonathan: Suggested directing contributors to the appropriate SIGs (Special Interest Groups).
	-	Cody: Agreed to incorporate the feedback and adjust the RFC template accordingly and share the updated template for further input
	- Cody: Mentioned the need for an example template using a past decision.
    - Neal: Jonathan and him can draft up the x86_64_v2 one as an example
	-	All: Decided to use the existing ALESCo repository for managing meeting agendas and issues instead of creating a new one.

### Alternating Meeting Schedule
-	Cody: Brought up the idea of alternating meeting times to accommodate participants in different time zones.
- Cody: Found it unfeasible at this time due to scheduling conflicts and global distribution of team members.
- Cody: Proposed to reassess the possibility in the future.
- All: Agreed to put the idea on the back burner and revisit it in a few months if meetings gain more traction.

