# ALESCo Meeting Minutes (2025-04-02)

Minutes recorded by Jonathan Wright.

Edited by Jonathan Wright for publishing.

## Members

### ALESCo Member Attendees

- Andrew Lukoshko
- Elkhan Mammadli
- Jonathan Wright
- Neal Gompa
- Ben Thomas

### Unable to attend

- Cody Robertson

### Board Attendees

- benny Vasquez

## Community Attendees

## Decisions Adopted

- Merged updated ALESCo Policy/Workflow for RFCs
  - https://github.com/AlmaLinux/ALESCo/pull/5

## Minutes

### RFC: Enable KVM on AlmaLinux 9 on ppc64le

https://github.com/AlmaLinux/ALESCo/pull/3

- Neal: what if we ship hyperscale kernel as an alternative kernel and turn it on there
  - Lance: That would work
  - Jonathan: That changes the RFC pretty significantly
- Andrew: We can ship 2 AlmaLinux kernels, one with KVM/PPC enabled similar to something we do for ARM kernels already
- Andrew/Neal: Userspace supports clean failure/fallback if kernel support is missing.
- Neal: Default on PPC is PowerKVM anyway.
- Jonathan: Hyperscale kernel is only supported 5 years
- Neal: Hyperscale can look at supporting it for 10.
- Jonathan: How many alt kernels is too many?
- Jonathan to Lance: can you skip 9 and go to 10, where we're already shipping KVM/PPC support?
- Lance: Don't know yet due to OpenStack.
- Jonathan: We need Andrew's input since the workload of build and maintaining this will fall on his team.
- Andrew: Will prepare POC of KVM/PPC on stock AlmaLinux kernel
- Lance: Can test artifacts and provide feedback.
- All: Will revisit after receiving Lance's feedback.

### RFC: Introduce x86_64-v1 compatibility for AlmaLinux 10

https://github.com/AlmaLinux/ALESCo/pull/4

- benny: Until the work can be justified we can't do anything with this yet.
- Jonathan: Premature to vote right now, proposer needs more time to reply to comments.
- Neal: Sympathetic to his argument biggest problem is virtualization stack which straight up will not work on v1.
- Jonathan: Even Fedora will probably move on from v1 in the next several years - conversations about this are coming up more and more. That would put us in a worse position supporting v1.
- Neal: We're constrained by the software we ship, of which a lot is skewing towards requiring v2 and higher.
- Jonathan: Tabling for vote at next meeting.

### ALESCo Process Updates

https://github.com/AlmaLinux/ALESCo/pull/5
This was heavily discussed in person at our leadership summit in Brussels, Belgium in February of 2025.

- Neal: Let's add a chunk to make PRs as draft so they don't get accidentally merged.
- benny: Haven't seen anything accidentally merged.
- Neal: I almost did one this morning.
- Ben: Does this stop alerts?
- benny: No, alerts still go out.
- Neal: Draft PRs don't trigger actions and stops from merging until it's not a draft. That's the only implications of a draft.
- benny: I'm fine with drafts.
- Neal: Define GH action to convert it to a draft?
- Ben: What about a branch rule?
- Neal: Complex to make rules like that.
- All: Good with it, pending Jonathan's more detailed review.
- benny: Make GH account using board email, add as reviewer to new PRs.
