# ALESCo Meeting Minutes (2025-07-09)
Minutes recorded by Jonathan Wright.

Edited by Jonathan Wright for publishing.

## Members
### ALESCo Member Attendees
- Neal Gompa
- Andrew Lukoshko
- Ben Thomas
- Jonathan Wright
- Cody Robertson
- Elkhan Mammadli

### Unable to attend

### Board Attendees
- Alex Iribarren

## Community Attendees
- Luna Jernberg
- Kevin Fox
- Lance Albertson
- TJ Walton (briefly)

## Decisions Adopted
- New ALESCo Chair - Jonathan Wright
  - This vote was subsequently nullified unanimously after the meeting by ALESCo for a lack of clear voting guidelines.  We are adopting more clear voting guidelines and will elect a new chair in our next meeting.  Cody Robertson remains the current chair through the next meeting.

## Minutes

### Open Floor
#### Are Raspberry Pi Images Official?
Kevin Fox raised questions about the official status of Raspberry Pi images and their integration with bootc images. Neal highlighted the differences in Raspberry Pi's approach compared to other projects and suggested looking at Fedora's release blocking as a model. The team discussed defining maturity and stability levels for these images, with Neal and Alex agreeing to develop a framework for this.

There was a consensus to proceed with Raspberry Pi developments, marking them as experimental for now. The conversation also touched on the stability of bootc images on Quay, with Alex clarifying their association with the Cloud SIG rather than the Atomic SIG. The team agreed on the need for guidelines similar to Fedora's for defining the maturity of SIG artifacts. Neal and Alex will work on a proposal for this framework.

The meeting concluded with decisions on namespace management for the images, with Andrew and Cody taking responsibility for setting up namespaces on Quay.io and GitHub, respectively. Kevin will ensure the work can be integrated later, and the namespace for the project will be "bootc-images-rpi."
