(window.webpackJsonp=window.webpackJsonp||[]).push([[46],{359:function(e,t,a){"use strict";a.r(t);var i=a(27),s=Object(i.a)({},(function(){var e=this,t=e._self._c;return t("ContentSlotsDistributor",{attrs:{"slot-key":e.$parent.slotKey}},[t("h1",{attrs:{id:"alesco-meeting-minutes-2024-10-02"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#alesco-meeting-minutes-2024-10-02"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" ALESCo Meeting Minutes (2024-10-02)")]),e._v(" "),t("p",[e._v("Minutes recorded by Cody Robertson.")]),e._v(" "),t("p",[e._v("Edited by Cody Robertson for publishing.")]),e._v(" "),t("h2",{attrs:{id:"members"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#members"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Members")]),e._v(" "),t("h3",{attrs:{id:"alesco-member-attendees"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#alesco-member-attendees"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" ALESCo Member Attendees")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Andrew Lukoshko")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Cody Robertson")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Elkhan Mammadli")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Jonathan Wright")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal Gompa")])]),e._v(" "),t("h3",{attrs:{id:"unable-to-attend"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#unable-to-attend"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Unable to attend")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Ben Thomas")])]),e._v(" "),t("h3",{attrs:{id:"board-attendees"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#board-attendees"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Board Attendees")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Alex Iribarren")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("benny Vasquez")])]),e._v(" "),t("h2",{attrs:{id:"community-attendees"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#community-attendees"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Community Attendees")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("No community attendees")])]),e._v(" "),t("h2",{attrs:{id:"decisions-adopted"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#decisions-adopted"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Decisions Adopted")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Rebuilding EPEL for x86_64_v2\n"),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("The motion to rebuild EPEL for x86_64 v2 was tabled to gather more data and revisit after the release of AlmaLinux Kitten.")])])])]),e._v(" "),t("h2",{attrs:{id:"minutes"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#minutes"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Minutes")]),e._v(" "),t("h3",{attrs:{id:"rebuilding-epel-for-x86-64-v2"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#rebuilding-epel-for-x86-64-v2"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Rebuilding EPEL for x86_64 v2")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Cody: Introduced the topic of rebuilding EPEL for the x86_64 v2 architecture. Noted that previous votes focused on v3 and there was ambiguity regarding v2.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Andrew: Expressed concerns about the potential workload and maintenance challenges.\n"),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Highlighted the need to adjust macro systems and spec files.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Did not want to maintain changes or forks on our side.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Jonathan: Clarified that the build system can reasonably supports this\n"),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Andrew: Yes, not a problem")])])]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Pointed out that Fedora still builds for v1 and EPEL packages are Fedora backports, so issues might be minimal.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Emphasized the importance of EPEL for the usability of RHEL-based distributions.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Suggested that releasing without EPEL support might hinder adoption.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Alex: Agreed with Andrew’s concerns.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Can do this in stages, thinks we should approve it and see demand to make further decisions")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Jonathan: Proposed tabling the decision to gather more data on user demand and revisit the topic after the release of AlmaLinux Kitten.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Warned that releasing AlmaLinux 10 without EPEL support for x86_64 v2 could impede adoption/usage\n"),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Suggested that if they decide not to build EPEL for v2, they should consider not releasing the v2 variant at all.")])])]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Decision: The team agreed to table the motion and reassess after AlmaLinux Kitten is released.")])])])]),e._v(" "),t("h3",{attrs:{id:"github-repository-for-official-changes-rfcs"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#github-repository-for-official-changes-rfcs"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" GitHub Repository for Official Changes/RFCs")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Cody: Presented a PoC for a GitHub repository to manage Requests for Comments (RFCs) and official changes "),t("a",{attrs:{href:"https://github.com/codyro/alesco-poc/",target:"_blank",rel:"noopener noreferrer"}},[e._v("[1]"),t("OutboundLink")],1)]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Inspired by ArchLinux and Rust RFC processes.\n"),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Neal: Suggested replacing the “Alternatives” section with a “Feedback” section to capture community input.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Emphasized that submitting an RFC does not obligate the ALESCo committee to implement it; contributors should be responsible for the work.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Proposed adding sections about the benefit to AlmaLinux and feedback from the community/marketing perspective")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Jonathan: Agreed with the proposed changes")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Jonathan: Discussed the possibility of mentoring contributors who might need assistance.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Jonathan: Suggested directing contributors to the appropriate SIGs (Special Interest Groups).")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Cody: Agreed to incorporate the feedback and adjust the RFC template accordingly and share the updated template for further input")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Cody: Mentioned the need for an example template using a past decision.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Neal: Jonathan and him can draft up the x86_64_v2 one as an example")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("All: Decided to use the existing ALESCo repository for managing meeting agendas and issues instead of creating a new one.")])])])]),e._v(" "),t("h3",{attrs:{id:"alternating-meeting-schedule"}},[t("a",{staticClass:"header-anchor",attrs:{href:"#alternating-meeting-schedule"}},[e._v("#")]),e._v(" Alternating Meeting Schedule")]),e._v(" "),t("ul",[t("li",[e._v("Cody: Brought up the idea of alternating meeting times to accommodate participants in different time zones.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Cody: Found it unfeasible at this time due to scheduling conflicts and global distribution of team members.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("Cody: Proposed to reassess the possibility in the future.")]),e._v(" "),t("li",[e._v("All: Agreed to put the idea on the back burner and revisit it in a few months if meetings gain more traction.")])])])}),[],!1,null,null,null);t.default=s.exports}}]);